.TH "GIT-commit-message-summary-length" 1 "December 6 2024" "git-commit-message-summary-length 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-commit-message-summary-length \- Check a commit's message's length
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBgit commit-message-summary-length\fR [\fB\-\-error-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR=\<\fIlog level\fR\>] [\fB\-\-warn-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\<\fIrevision\fR\>]

\fBgit commit-message-summary-length\fR (\fBhelp\fR | \fB--help\fR)

\fBgit commit-message-summary-length\fR (\fB--version\fR | \fB-v\fR | \fBversion\fR)

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgit-commit-message-summary-length\fR Check a commit's message's length.

.SH COMMANDS
The following commands are available:

.IP \(bu
\fBgit commit-message-summary-length\fR [\fB\-\-error-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR=\<\fIlog level\fR\>] [\fB\-\-warn-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\<\fIrevision\fR\>]

Check a commit's message's length.

Succeeds if the commit message summary's length is less than or equal to the
"error after" length (default 72).

Fails if the commit message summary's length is greater than the "error after" length
(default 72).

\<\fIrevision\fR\> is any revision parameter accepted by \`git log -1\`.

If the log level (default 3) is 0, the command has no output.

If the log level (default 3) is 1, only the integer length of the commit
message is logged.

If the log level (default 3) is 2 or 3, the length of the commit message is
logged in a sentence, colored yellow if the commit message summary's length is between the
"warn after" length (default 50) and the "error after" length (default 72),
or colored red if the commit message summary's length is greater than the "error after" length.

If the log level is 3 (default) the commit message is logged. Characters
between "warn after" and "error after" are highlighted in yellow. Characters
after "warn after" are highlighted in red.

.IP \(bu
\fBgit commit-message-summary-length\fR (\fBhelp\fR | \fB--help\fR)

Show this document.

.IP \(bu
\fBgit commit-message-summary-length\fR (\fB--version\fR | \fB-v\fR | \fBversion\fR)

Show the current version.

.SH CONFIGURATION

Configure git-commit-message-summary-length in the \fBcommit-message-summary-length\fR git-config
section.

Set options with \`git config [--global] commit-message-summary-length.<key> <value>\`.

.IP \(bu
\fBerrorafter\fR

The commit message summary's length after which git-commit-message-summary-length errors.
72 if not otherwise configured.

.IP \(bu
\fBloglevel\fR

The default log level. Supported values are 0, 1, 2, and 3.
3 if not otherwise configured.

.IP \(bu
\fBwarnafter\fR

The commit message summary's length after which git-commit-message-summary-length errors.
50 if not otherwise configured.

.SH SEE ALSO

git(1), git-log(1)

.SH AUTHORS

Henry Bley\-Vroman <olets@olets.dev>
