.TH "GIT-message-length" 1 "September 25 2024" "git-message-length 1.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-message-length \- Check a commit's message's length
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBgit message-length\fR [\fB\-\-error-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR=\<\fIlog level\fR\>] [\fB\-\-warn-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\<\fIrevision\fR\>]

\fBgit message-length\fR (\fBhelp\fR | \fB--help\fR)

\fBgit message-length\fR (\fB--version\fR | \fB-v\fR | \fBversion\fR)

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgit-message-length\fR Check a commit's message's length.

.SH COMMANDS
The following commands are available:

.IP \(bu
\fBgit message-length\fR [\fB\-\-error-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\fB\-\-log-level\fR=\<\fIlog level\fR\>] [\fB\-\-warn-after\fR=\<\fIlength\fR\>] [\<\fIrevision\fR\>]

Check a commit's message's length.

Succeeds if the message length is less than or equal to the
"error after" length (default 72).

Fails if the message length is greater than the "error after" length
(default 72).

\<\fIrevision\fR\> is any revision parameter accepted by \`git log -1\`.

If the log level (default 3) is 0, the command has no output.

If the log level (default 3) is 1, only the integer length of the commit
message is logged.

If the log level (default 3) is 2 or 3, the length of the commit message is
logged in a sentence, colored yellow if the message length is between the
"warn after" length (default 50) and the "error after" length (default 72),
or colored red if the message length is greater than the "error after" length.

If the log level is 3 (default) the commit message is logged. Characters
between "warn after" and "error after" are highlighted in yellow. Characters
after "warn after" are highlighted in red.

.IP \(bu
\fBgit message-length\fR (\fBhelp\fR | \fB--help\fR)

Show this document.

.IP \(bu
\fBgit message-length\fR (\fB--version\fR | \fB-v\fR | \fBversion\fR)

Show the current version.

.SH CONFIGURATION

Configure git-message-length in the \fBmessage-length\fR git-config
section.

Set options with \`git config [--global] message-length.<key> <value>\`.

.IP \(bu
\fBerrorafter\fR

The message length after which git-message-length errors.
72 if not otherwise configured.

.IP \(bu
\fBloglevel\fR

The default log level. Supported values are 0, 1, 2, and 3.
3 if not otherwise configured.

.IP \(bu
\fBwarnafter\fR

The message length after which git-message-length errors.
50 if not otherwise configured.

.SH SEE ALSO

git(1), git-log(1)

.SH AUTHORS

Henry Bley\-Vroman <olets@olets.dev>
